---
title: "GeoJupyter core community meeting"
description: |
  A monthly gathering of the GeoJupyter core community. Open to all!
date: "2025-05-13"
image: "../images/community-meeting.jpg"
author:
  - name: "The GeoJupyter community"
categories:
  - "Meeting notes"
tags: [meeting-notes]
---

# GeoJupyter core community meeting (2025-05-13)

Please add new agenda items under the `New agenda items` heading!

- [Join us on Zoom](https://berkeley.zoom.us/j/99659397059?pwd=519zZJlcAa1TCyJWRYyYbaYDfuaXNo.1)
  - [What time is the meeting in my time zone?](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=4pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://geojupyter.org/blog/#category=Meeting%20notes)
- [GeoJupyter](https://geojupyter.org) handy links:
  - [GitHub org](https://github.com/geojupyter)
  - [Community calendar](https://geojupyter.org/calendar.html)
  - [Zulip chat](https://jupyter.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/471314-geojupyter)


## Attendees

Your name / GitHub ID / affiliation

* Kevin Koy / \@kevkoy / Schmidt DSE
* Matt Fisher / \@mfisher87 / Schmidt DSE
* Nicolas Brichet / \@brichet / QuantStack
* Arjun Verma / \@arjxn-py / QuantStack
* Anne Fouilloux / \@annefou / Simula
* Ciera Martinez / \@iamciera / Schmidt DSE


### Standing items

- [ ] What's going well?
  - Seems like lots of folks are talking about GeoJupyter :)
- [ ] What needs work?
  - Our blog is possibly overpopulated with meeting notes in addition to announcements and analyses. Split it into two separate listings?
  - Community handbook created on `geojupyter.org`; should we move it to a dedicated "team compass" website?
  - "What is GeoJupyter?" make this information more prominent.
  - Since GeoJupyter has only JupyterGIS for sometime, Maybe we can start thinking about starting a new supporting project or something to represent Geojupyter better as a community?
      - Use a future community meeting to dig through our summarized transcripts of user interviews to inform this brainstorming!
  - Architecture documentation
      - Nicolas shared some LLM-generated documentation; how can we benefit from that?
  - In hackathons, we often start work but don't work on it again between hackathons.
      - Would be useful to have more documentation to help support them between hackathons.
      - Ask at the next Hackathon: What can we do to support you continuing this work between now and the next hackathon?
  - Contributing to the JS side of JGIS has a high learning curve. The Python side is more approachable / familiar.
      - Separate Python API into a different package?
      - Can we add some Python-only functionality, e.g. a helper function that can produce static plots from the JupyterGIS document that's been built up?
          - e.g. Helper to use geopandas to perform processing, but output a file instead of updating the map; then can use other existing functions to add that output file back to the project.
      - Need to think hard about compatibility, versioning!


### Follow-up from previous meeting(s)

- [ ]


### New agenda items

- [ ] Events
  * Cloud Native Geospatial 2025: Matt
  * Community Surface Dynamics Modeling System Annual Meeting 2025: Matt, Fernando
  * European Geosciences Union 2025: Anne.
      * Demoed JGIS.
      * Collected feedback
          * Support for gpkg
          * Planning on a case study!
      * Audience mostly GIS people
  * Galaxy Training Academy 2025:
      * Happening now!
      * Deployed JGIS collaborative instance
      * Worldwide async online training
      * Wide range of people, some scientists, some curious users!
      * Going well.
      * Feedback form at the end.
  * Living Planet Symposium 2025:
      * Will have a demo & training
      * Coming soon!
      * Using flood data, it's top of mind for folks in Germany!
  * TODO: Perhaps a summertime hack event in Berkeley?
      * @ Berkeley AI Futures Lab
      * Asynchronous participation from Europe?
      * Synchronous remote participation in the mornings with European folks!
      * /


### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ] Talk to Felt folks; can we establish a mutually beneficial collaboration?
    - [ ] Ciera will talk to Felt CEO!
