---
title: "GeoJupyter core community meeting 2025-02-11"
description: |
  A monthly gathering of the GeoJupyter core community. Open to all!
date: "2025-02-11"
image: "../images/community-meeting.jpg"
author:
  - name: "The GeoJupyter community"
categories:
  - "Meeting notes"
tags: [meeting-notes]
---

# GeoJupyter core community meeting 2025-02-11

- [Join us on Zoom](https://berkeley.zoom.us/j/99659397059?pwd=519zZJlcAa1TCyJWRYyYbaYDfuaXNo.1)
  - [What time is the meeting in my time zone?](https://dateful.com/convert/utc?t=4pm)
- [Previous meetings](https://geojupyter.org/blog/#category=Meeting%20notes)
- [GeoJupyter](https://geojupyter.org) handy links:
  - [GitHub org](https://github.com/geojupyter)
  - [Community calendar](https://geojupyter.org/calendar.html)
  - [Zulip chat](https://jupyter.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/471314-geojupyter)


## Attendees

Your name / GitHub ID / affiliation / When you take a break, what's your favorite thing to do?

* Matt Fisher / mfisher87 / Schmidt DSE / Sit in the sun outside and pet my dogs, Ricky & Waffles!
* Greg Mooney / gjmooney / QuantStack / Make more coffee
* Nicolas Brichet / brichet / QuantStack / ?
* Martin Renou / martinRenou / QuantStack / Chop wood
* Arjun Verma / arjxn-py / QuantStack / Usually go for a walk


### Action items

- [ ] Matt: Establish a way to redirect folks interested in GeoJupyter from Jupyter
    Discourse to Zulip or GitHub. Either:
  - Set up a notification alert on Jupyter Discourse for the term "GeoJupyter"
    so we can start directing folks from there to our communication channels.
  - Set up an empty / read-only category in Jupyter Discourse for GeoJuypter
    which redirects folks to our communication channels.
- [ ] Undergrad outreach.
  - Ciera: Berkeley.
  - Matt: Stanford, Clark, UT, more?


### Standing items

- [ ] Event planning
  - Hackathon in-person Boulder, CO, May 22-23
    - No updates. Will have updates for next meeting!
- [ ] Team communication
  - :tada: What is working well?
    - Hackathons! :100: Productive and great for building social connections! :heavy_plus_sign:
    - Zulip! I love topics.
  - :wrench: Opportunities for improvement? Be nitpicky!
    - I think we could use more networking within GeoJupyter between distant
      organizations, e.g. DevSeed + QuantStack or DevSeed + Clark University Geospatial
      group.
    - We did awesome brainstorming during hackathon, it'd be really nice to see these
      discussion continuing asynchronously over Zulip or GitHub
      - Some people are reluctant to jump in to discussions where they don't know what's
        going on. We can be more welcoming and encouraging for those who are reluctant!
      - (personal take) I find interaction on Github easier to track and follow than
        Zulip, we could try to encourage people to interact more on Github, less on
        Zulip?
        - Can be difficult to follow notifications in Zulip. Can keep up with
          notification backlog in GitHub more easily. Can be difficult to find
          discussions in Zulip 3 months later. GitHub can be less chit-chatty.
        - Zulip for non-devs, GitHub for devs? Zulip as "upstream" of GitHub
        - Also GitHub Discussions. More oriented to users. Could use this as a "when in
          doubt" bucket -- if you're not sure if it's an "issue", just open a discussion
          and we'll move it if it's an issue.
    - Jupyter has used [Discourse](https://discourse.jupyter.org/).
      Should we check there from time to time?
      Matt: Set up notifications to be alerted if anyone mentions GeoJupyter on the
      Jupyter Discourse. Then we can comment to let them know how to participate!
      - Nicolas: Create a read-only GeoJupyter channel which links to Zulip! Redirect
        folks from Discourse to Zulip. Matt: Look in to this.
      - Arjun: Should we add a GeoJupyter category to Discourse?


### Follow-up from previous meeting(s)

- [ ]


### New agenda items

- [ ] [Hackathon debrief](https://geojupyter.org/blog/20250205-virtual-hackathon/)
    - So much fun :D Thanks to all who attended!
    - Please spread the word to help keep the momentum going :)
    - Next in 1 week from tomorrow, Feb 19.
      See the [community calendar](https://geojupyter.org/calendar)
- [ ] Governance & stuff: What do we need? Looking to your expertise.
      Goal: [Align with Jupyter subprojects](https://jupyter.org/governance/software_subprojects.html?responsibilities-of-jupyter-subprojects=#responsibilities-of-jupyter-subprojects)
      & clarify current project status (i.e. NOT official subproject)
      - Voila started as independent, became a subproject officially.
        QuantStack (Sylvain) has experience with the process!
    - Team compass: source of truth for community resources, policy, & practices.
      This is something we can start now.
    - Steering council: Not needed yet.
    - SSC rep: Not needed yet.
- [ ] Distributing power in the community
    - Not going to solve today!
    - Please start thinking about what roles need to be defined in our community.
    - Ciera: Make sure we include a younger generation, maybe undergrads!
      Reach out to Qiusheng for undergrads.
      Empower to participate and make decisions!
      **Ciera point of contact for Berkeley undergrads!**
- [ ] Coffee chats!
    - Cross-org coffee chats!
- [ ] Update from JupyterGIS:
    - [ ] The Python API now works in the JupyterLite deployment: https://jupytergis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/lite/lab/index.html?path=france_hiking.jGIS
    - [ ] Soon to be publishing JupyterGIS 0.4.0 https://github.com/geojupyter/jupytergis/milestone/3 :tada:
    - [ ] Working on a blog-post announcing JupyterGIS on the Jupyter blog :tada:
      - Martin will share draft in GeoJupyter Logistics channel



### Pushed to next meeting

- [ ]
